HITOGASHIMA
MAN: We hope you enjoyed
traveling with us.
Please watch your step. Have a nice day.
Mm.
HIZURU: That man is a shadow.
Which definitely adds
some credibility to that message.
(insects chirping)
(gasps)
(panting)
(theme music)
MIO: Welcome home, Shin-chan!
(Mio chuckling)
Hey!
MIO: You have a nice trip?
-"Shin-chan"?
-MIO: I wanna hear everything!
-Shin... Shinpei?
-SHINPEI: Leave it to me!
HIZURU: Shinpei Ajiro.
(water splashes)
Shinpei Ajiro.
-HIZURU: That boy on the ferry.
-Shin-chan!
-MIO: Shin-chan!
-HIZURU: No, it can't be him.
Oh.
FUNERAL OF USHIO KOFUNE
HIZURU: Funeral? Kofune? Ushio.
SHINPEI: Ushio!
(pensive music)
HIZURU: It's currently 11:45 a. m.
I'm at the funeral parlor.
The deceased is Ushio Kofune.
I know her from around the island.
-MASAHITO: Hizuru-chan?
-Huh?
MASAHITO: Ah, I thought that was you!
Hizuru Minakata. That right?
You have a good memory, Masahito Karikiri.
No way, you look fantastic.
How long has it been?
Uh, about 14 years, I think.
HIZURU: I'm in his shadow, seems fine.
MASAHITO: No.
Has it really been that long?
HIZURU: He's not one of them.
Is Ushio related to the family
that owns Bistro Kofune?
Yeah, she is. She passed
in an accident yesterday.
Are you here
because you heard about Ushio?
No.
MASAHITO: Oh, then what are you here for?
You're not back for good, are you?
No, I live in Tokyo and--
Wait! Stop, stop! Just let me guess!
You were always smart, so I'm gonna say...
-you must be a big corporate attorney...
-Oh, god, now it's all coming back to me.
-or maybe a doctor?
-I could never stand being around you
for five minutes.
Turns out I still can't.
Guess nothing's changed.
(laughs)
-You were always such a jokester!
-Ugh!
-It's not a joke, you windbag!
-Oh.
MASAHITO: Hey, Alain.
-You remember who this is?
-(grunts)
You'll be shocked when I tell you.
-Ready for this? Her name is--
-I'm Hizuru Minakata.
-Come on! You totally blew the big reveal!
-Huh? Hizuru?
Hizuru, that you?
It's been a long time, Alain.
HIZURU: It was my second year
of Junior High.
BISTRO KOFUNE
HIZURU: I went to Bistro Kofune
a lot back then.
Alain had two little daughters,
Ushio and Mio.
Alain's wife died
soon after she gave birth to Mio.
And when Alain went to work,
customers usually looked after the girls.
Read me this picture book!
-HIZURU: This isn't a picture book.
-Hey, you can't read her that!
Not fair! Read it! Read it to me!
Read it! Read it! Read it!
You know, maybe you'd rather hear
one of my epic original stories instead?
Huh? Or… Original?
Oh! Lucky you, Ushio.
Hizuru's newest masterpiece.
HIZURU: "A very long time ago,
on an island..."
HIZURU: Death is inevitable,
it comes for us all.
(gloomy music)
HIZURU: Ryunosuke, it's been 14 years.
Clearly enough time has passed
for another one to have died.
What happened? Did you say you fell?
What's the matter?
It sounds like Mio and Shinpei
-fell into the ocean.
-(Hizuru gasps)
ALAIN: Needless to say,
they'll be a little late.
I'm sorry to hear that.
Let's wait a while, then.
HIZURU: Alain, who's this Shinpei
you mentioned?
Shinpei? You don't know him.
He came here after you left the island.
He's a young man named Shinpei Ajiro.
He's actually my friend's son,
but I took him in a long time ago.
HIZURU: Shinpei Ajiro.
Was it ten years ago now?
He lost his parents
in a tragic boating accident.
After that, he was all alone,
he didn't have any relatives--
Excuse me.
ALAIN: Oh, Hizuru.
What the...
HIZURU: The boy who was sitting
in front of me on the ferry,
that was the Shinpei Ajiro
Alain's talking about.
I should avoid meeting him.
I can't, right now.
I can't afford to trust anyone yet.
Wait a minute, Hizuru!
HIZURU: Uh... Ligature marks?
ALAIN: Yes. They said it looked like
someone was trying to strangle her,
and she put up a fight.
Wait a second, Alain.
Are the police idiots, or what?
The attacker's DNA, like blood or skin,
is still on the victim's
fingernails sometimes.
So did they bother to check
her fingernails?
ALAIN: Hm, no.
HIZURU: Unbelievable.
Doesn't this remind you
of that time a while back?
HIZURU: Oh...
ALAIN: It was around 14 years ago
when Ryunosuke died.
(crying)
No, Ryunosuke!
HIZURU: Heine!
-HIZURU: Move!
-(crowd gasps)
MAN 1: Why?
-(grunts)
-MAN 2: Whoa!
Hey, hey! What are you doing?
(grunts)
Don't touch me!
TETSU: What the hell is this?
Don't think I won't arrest you.
HIZURU: Nothing seems unusual
at first, but...
(ominous music)
Who did the makeup for this body?
I think it was...
It was a nurse at the Hishigata Clinic.
What is this? The dead deserve respect.
It's okay, doctor. Don't worry.
She's a friend of the family.
Who's really being disrespectful here?
HISHIGATA: Hm?
Hizuru.
ALAIN: Hizuru.
Sorry about that. I'll get going.
It was because I said
all that nonsense before.
Just forget about it.
HIZURU: Before I go,
I have one last question for you, Alain.
ALAIN: Hm?
Did Ushio ever mention her doppelgänger
before she passed away?
-ALAIN: Doppel...
-ASAKO: Hizuru?
Isokone... Asako Isokone.
I always wanted to get in touch with you,
but, you know, you never gave me
your address or your phone number.
Are you doing okay?
Depends on how you define "okay,"
but at least my heart
is still beating, I guess.
(Asako chuckles)
You haven't changed at all.
ASAKO: Do you remember much about Ushio?
HIZURU: Yeah.
At the wake yesterday, we got together
and shared a lot of stories about her,
like how I always changed her diapers.
(Asako sobs)
Why did... Why did this happen to her?
Ushio saved my daughter's life, you know?
ALAIN: It's all right, that's just
the kind of person Ushio was.
All that matters now
is that your Shiori is safe.
HIZURU: Give me a break.
What's it crying about? Stop it.
This disgusting, phony charade
makes me sick.
(Asako sobbing)
HIZURU: Damn shadow.
-TATSUO: Asako.
-HIZURU: Hm?
HIZURU: My guess is Asako
is probably already dead.
"Ushio saved my daughter's life?"
"Why did this happen to her?" What a lie.
How dare you come in here
pretending to be Asako,
mocking Alain and Ushio in the process?
NEZU: So you're telling me
all three Kobayakawas are shadows?
Yes. No doubt about it.
Believe me, I confirmed it myself.
The shadows are multiplying.
NEZU: Seems to me like
it only takes one of them
-to propagate and make more shadows.
-HIZURU: Hmm...
The shadows I know
aren't capable of something like that.
HIZURU: What is happening on this island?
Who knows? I have no idea about that.
HIZURU: How about this theory?
One day a shadow attacks Shiori Kobayakawa
while she's in the water.
It kills and erases the real Shiori,
deciding to pose
as the vulnerable
and aggrieved little girl.
But then Mio saves the shadow Shiori.
After that,
it mercilessly kills Shiori's parents
-and replaces them with shadows.
-(Hizuru sobbing)
NEZU: Are you... Are you crying?
Looks like it's gonna snow tomorrow.
-HIZURL: It never snows this time of year.
-NEZU: Ow!
(Nezu grunts)
HIZURU: If anything, it'll rain,
but the forecast for tomorrow
is sunny and clear.
Get your facts straight.
NEZU: What is this?
HIZURI: That's my secondary cell phone.
Please let me know if it rings at all.
I need you to do something for me.
HITOGASHIMA HALL
SHINPEI: I'm gonna follow
my memory like last time,
and repeat the funeral again.
Same movements. Same conversations.
(inaudible)
Listen, Shiori. I heard you saw
someone who looked like you.
Be careful. That could be
a monster called a shadow.
If you see her again,
just try to stay away from her, okay?
SHINPEI: I'm repeating everything I did,
but this version of Shiori
isn't doing anything to me.
Coffin comes in at one.
Good. It's all going well.
SHADOW ASAKO: Hey, Shinpei.
SHINPEI: Oh.
Did Mio tell you
that Shiori maybe saw something...
a look-alike or a shadow?
Oh, yeah. When she was...
she was little...
(gasps)
SHINPEI: Huh? Both of them.
Shinpei, you okay?
Ah, yep. So when Mio was a little girl,
her grandma told her about it.
Sorry that probably sounded weird.
-SHADOW TATSUO: Asako, let's go.
-SHADOW ASAKO: Okay.
SHINPEI: It can't be.
Are all three of them shadows?
So then the real three are already...
Come on. Where are you, Ms. Nagumo?
We're running out of time.
Hey, Shin-chan.
-Uh...
-Hey. Are you okay?
(Shinpei sighs)
SHINPEI: Mio, can I ask you something?
Were you wearing
white underwear yesterday?
(Mio gasps)
That's really the first thing you ask me
after being away for two years?
Mio, it's very important I know
what color your underwear were.
MIO: What happened to you, Shin-chan?
SHINPEI: Right before Mio's
shadow killed me the last time,
I accidentally saw up her dress,
and the shadow's underwear were white.
But the ones Mio had on weren't.
Well, yesterday I went home
after the wake, and I changed.
Yeah, the... the new pair
I changed into were white,
so what does that matter?
SHINPEI: That means Mio
was copied yesterday.
I don't think there's any way
to prevent that.
I have to kill it. I have to protect Mio.
(metal creaks)
MIOH: So you don't know, either, Dad?
(static)
Do you have any idea where Sis went?
MIOH: Didn't think so.
SHINPEI: It's 1:30.
Ushio is cremated in her coffin.
After that, we have lunch
before we pick up the ashes.
(indistinct chatter)
SHINPEI: There are really two questions
I want to ask people.
Huh? Oh. The ghost story?
You know, it's funny,
someone just asked me something similar.
Well, of course, I know about it.
Actually, my great-grandfather named it.
He called it "shadow sickness."
It is true that a peculiar type
of mental illness did occur
among certain isolated groups.
(Tetsu laughs)
I saw her! She's a G cup.
Are you talking about Hizuru, by chance?
Don't know who you mean.
Shinpei, I'm pretty sure
you know Hizuru, don't you?
She used to come over
to our place all the time, remember?
Huh? To our place?
SHINPEI: How did we never meet?
ALAIN: By the way, Shinpei.
Can you take a quick look at this?
I asked Hizuru for her number,
but she just gave me this instead.
I can't seem to figure it out.
Maybe you can.
(gasps)
SHINPEI: Ms. Nagumo's contact info.
This... This is...
Excuse me, Shinpei. Nature calls.
SHINPEI: Hmm... I think this is
the unbreakable code from that case
in her novel, Drifting Ashore.
(door opens)
(door closes)
(approaching footsteps)
(line ringing)
-Hi there. Is this Ms. Nagumo?
-NEZU: Hmm? Who the hell is this?
(Shinpei gasps)
Uh... This is...
SHINPEI: It's not Ms. Nagumo.
My name is Shinpei Ajiro. Who is this?
NEZU: I see.
That was faster than I thought.
My name is Nezu. Ginjiro Nezu.
But Ms. Nagumo is, uh,
an acquaintance of mine.
Now, how exactly did you get this number?
SHINPEI: Well, Ms. Nagumo
gave Alain this number in code.
NEZU: And you cracked it, didn't you?
Uh, yes. There was actually
a similar code in one of her books.
NEZU: Ah, are you
at the crematorium right now?
SHINPEI: Uh, yes.
NEZU: Leave when I hang up,
and go to the funeral hall. Go alone.
(Nezu clears throat)
I'll contact you later.
Uh, excuse me! Hello...
(line beeping)
(door opens)
(static)
OUT OF ORDER
(toilet flushing)
Hmm... It's open.
-What the...
-(metal clanks)
(phone buzzing)
Oh. Hello? Mr. Nezu? I... I made it.
SHINPEI: So, what should I do now?
Don't move a muscle.
Just stay where you are.
Like you're a scarecrow
standing in a field.
NEZU: It will be over soon.
Huh?
NEZU: There.
(gunshot)
Huh?
HIZURU: Time and place. Of course,
you'd attack when Alain is alone.
But I predicted 17 different patterns.
You chose the bathroom.
Why are you here? This is the men's...
Normal, huh?
ALAIN: What the... What was
all that racket in the next stall?
What's going on in there?
SHINPEI: Ms. Nagumo.
I can finally meet her.
HIZURU: If you really can,
go back in time to the 22nd,
just remember to tell me your name,
and I'll save you.
SHINPEI: If we work together
from the beginning,
we can kill Mio's shadow.
How does she even know
about shadows in the first place?
I have so many questions.
(Shinpei gasps)
-SHINPEI: Hello, Mr. Nezu. Right?
-Hmm...
NEZU: Huh? This is the first time
we've met, right?
Oh, of course! You, uh, found out...
found out about shadows, too?
If you have a bunch of questions,
I'm going to need you
to answer mine first, all right?
NEZU: To break the code you saw
from Ms. Nagumo's novel,
you need to know Ryunosuke Nagumo
and her real name.
But Hizuru has been careful
not to tell anyone
that she is, in fact,
the real Ryunosuke Nagumo.
So, really, the only one out there
who could possibly know enough
to call this number is Hizuru's shadow.
-HIZURU: But it turns out you're human.
-Oh.
(gasps)
SHINPEI: Ms. Nagumo.
NEZU: So...
SHINPEI: It's...
It's S-H-I-N-P-E-I A-J-I-R-O.
Please make it out to Shinpei Ajiro!
I'd... I'd love your autograph.
I'm a huge fan of yours.
I have all of your books!
I read them over and over.
SHINPEI: I told you my name
like you asked.
Even with the bird's-eye view,
I sound like such an idiot.
Okay. What next?
Even with the current situation,
you aren't normal.
Lord Byron said,
"Truth is stranger than fiction."
Honestly, I'm not big on fantasy,
but when I see
what's possible in the world,
I come to the same conclusion.
TO SHINPEI AJIRO
RYUNOSUKE NAGUMO
(gasps)
Wow. Thank you so much.
Feel free to correct me if I have
the wrong impression about things.
On the ferry this morning,
you didn't know who I was.
No one knows who I am unless I choose
to tell them the truth about myself.
But I never told you who I am.
HIZURU: This is not the first time
you're living through the same July 22nd.
I think you must have repeated
this day many times.
(Shinpei gasps softly)
So in other words, you're a time traveler.
(sucks teeth)
That's right.
(closing theme music)